readme.md, before:

# PLDB: a Programming Language Database

PLDB is a public domain database and blog containing over 100,000 facts about over 4,000 programming languages.

This repo contains the entire database, blog, and code for https://pldb.com.

## To analyze the data

The PLDB database is freely available:

- As CSV: https://pldb.com/pldb.csv
- As JSON: https://pldb.com/pldb.json
- The JSON file is also available via npm:

```
// npm install pldb
console.log(require("pldb").javascript.appeared)
```

Documentation for the CSV is available here: https://pldb.com/docs/csv.html.

## To add a new language

Easy method: https://edit.pldb.com/create

Advanced method: Create a new file in `database/things` with a unique URL friendly filename ending in `.pldb` and send a pull request.

## To update a language

Easy method: https://edit.pldb.com/

Advanced method: Edit the corresponding `database/things/*.pldb` file and send a pull request.

## To build the full site locally

```
git clone https://github.com/breck7/pldb
cd pldb
npm install .
npm run tsc
npm run build
open pldb.local/index.html
```

## To explore this repo

The most important folder is `database/things/`, which contains a file for each entity. The folder `database/grammar/` contains the grammar files (schema) for the database.

The blog content is in the `blog` folder.

The `code` folder contains importer scripts and other code for the database and site.

You can see language stats for this repo by running `npm run cloc`. As of 8/29/2022:

```
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLDB                          4664          21608              0         129094
TypeScript                      27           1028            118           5912
Scroll                          61            416              0           2671
Grammar                         58              0              0           1455
JSON                             6              0              0            739
JavaScript                       6             25             19            338
CSS                              3              6              0            150
Markdown                         6             52              0            146
Python                           2             17              6             68
Bourne Shell                    10              2              4             41
SVG                              1              0              0              1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                          4844          23154            147         140615
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## To cite PLDB

PLDB content is published to the public domain and you can use it freely. If needed, here are 3 options for citing PLDB:

```
https://pldb.com
```

```
Breck Yunits et al. (2022) - "PLDB: a Programming Language Database". Retrieved from: 'https://pldb.com' [Online Resource]
```

```
@article{pldb,
  author = {Breck Yunits et al.},
  title = {PLDB: a Programming Language Database},
  journal = {PLDB},
  year = {2022},
  note = {https://pldb.com}
 }
```

All sources for PLDB can be found here: https://pldb.com/pages/acknowledgements.html

Commit message:

Add an explanation on how to add a new column and publish columns.csv file.

readme.md, after:

# PLDB: a Programming Language Database

PLDB is a public domain database and blog containing over 100,000 facts about over 4,000 programming languages.

This repo contains the entire database, blog, and code for https://pldb.com.

## To analyze the data

The PLDB database is freely available:

- As CSV: https://pldb.com/pldb.csv
- As JSON: https://pldb.com/pldb.json
- The JSON file is also available via npm:

```
// npm install pldb
console.log(require("pldb").javascript.appeared)
```

Documentation for the CSV is available here: https://pldb.com/docs/csv.html.

## To add a new language

Easy method: https://edit.pldb.com/create

Advanced method: Create a new file in `database/things` with a unique URL friendly filename ending in `.pldb` and send a pull request.

## To update a language

Easy method: https://edit.pldb.com/

Advanced method: Edit the corresponding `database/things/*.pldb` file and send a pull request.

## To add a new column

Advanced method: Edit or create a new file in `database/grammar` and add at least 1 example to an entity in `database/things` and send a pull request.

## To build the full site locally

```
git clone https://github.com/breck7/pldb
cd pldb
npm install .
npm run tsc
npm run build
open pldb.local/index.html
```

## To explore this repo

The most important folder is `database/things/`, which contains a file for each entity. The folder `database/grammar/` contains the grammar files (schema) for the database.

The blog content is in the `blog` folder.

The `code` folder contains importer scripts and other code for the database and site.

You can see language stats for this repo by running `npm run cloc`. As of 8/29/2022:

```
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLDB                          4664          21608              0         129094
TypeScript                      27           1028            118           5912
Scroll                          61            416              0           2671
Grammar                         58              0              0           1455
JSON                             6              0              0            739
JavaScript                       6             25             19            338
CSS                              3              6              0            150
Markdown                         6             52              0            146
Python                           2             17              6             68
Bourne Shell                    10              2              4             41
SVG                              1              0              0              1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                          4844          23154            147         140615
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## To cite PLDB

PLDB content is published to the public domain and you can use it freely. If needed, here are 3 options for citing PLDB:

```
https://pldb.com
```

```
Breck Yunits et al. (2022) - "PLDB: a Programming Language Database". Retrieved from: 'https://pldb.com' [Online Resource]
```

```
@article{pldb,
  author = {Breck Yunits et al.},
  title = {PLDB: a Programming Language Database},
  journal = {PLDB},
  year = {2022},
  note = {https://pldb.com}
 }
```

All sources for PLDB can be found here: https://pldb.com/pages/acknowledgements.html
